it starts with the realization that you  create your own reality this is the  hardest pill to swallow for most people  as you have to own up to your life the  good and the bad there is no outer god  to blame therefore most people will run  away from this responsibility as it is  much easier to complain about life than  to actually change it therefore as long  as you give your power to the outside  world god government or your ex you will  never be able to regulate your emotions  how can you you can't control the world  unless you take responsibility and  unless you accept that the world is  coming from within you be your thoughts  and feeling accepted by the subconscious  mind how can you change the world the  answer is be  like a thug or a corrupt politician or a  religious con artist or forcing your  love on your ex and try to manipulate  your relationship basically living life  with ego abandonment of ego leads to  inner peace there is no other way ego  makes us human makes us believe that it  is us against the world we must  forcefully take what we want and so on  you see ego starts wars it makes you  ignore your wife or gf to manipulate the  relationship it is not all bad as it is  a survival mechanism but it is  animalistic you can't really transcend  into higher levels of consciousness  unless you become aware of this animal  inside animal reacts not respond  therefore with slightest inconvenience  you will react to the world negatively  not knowing that whatever you resist  persists learning to respond to things  from inner control is the pathway to  peace we have been given dominion over  this life by the divine  but we won't see results so long as we  are being overwhelmed by our ego ego  won't let you see what you want to see  it will always point out to what is the  things you lack and how unfair is the  world so first step is to not react to  life but to respond if anything negative  happens don't label it negative mentally  just observe if you feel pain feel it  fully without labeling it as good or bad  learn to not accept every interpretation  of your mind your mind is always basing  its interpretations on incomplete date  or your past it is not reliable you  can't change a bad circumstance by  giving it all your power you must always  put your focus on what you want rather  than what is if what is is bad then  observe it without reacting don't give  it any power you see you are the one who  accepts what your mind presents to you  at any given moment your mind is not you  so you can reject its interpretation  that the girl you want doesn't love you  you can reject its interpretation that  you don't have what it takes to be rich  you can say no to its story about you  being not good enough and you can tell  at the story that you want to live you  can ignore when someone doubts you by  focusing within and realizing who you  are the moment you give power to the  outside world is the moment you start  suffering and the moment you drive life  from within is the moment you will start  commanding control on life  life will respond to your desires and  mental discipline just like it is  responding to your current thoughts and  feelings it is a misconception that we  need to be born charming to be loved or  born rich to have money you must first  present the consciousness of being rich  and charming first to have it in your  reality your entire being is plastic and  moldable this is why all the mystics and  new thought teachers like neville  goddard preach that we have dominion  over this reality the moment we begin to  identify with our inner being is the  moment we start waking up to this dream  and start to control it but the more you  identify with this ego and human  conception the more you will feel  shackled only consciousness can control  and respond an animal can only react  your emotions and feelings and thoughts  are internal process  and you have complete control over them  so regulate yourself from within and  your suffering will become less and less  as you master this and sooner or later  nothing will faze you and you will truly  become unshakable